Add actual tutorial (#3315)
zyedidia/micro: runtime/help/tutorial.md

# Tutorial

This is a brief intro to `micro` workflow with simple examples how to configure
settings, keys, and use `init.lua`.

Hopefully you'll find this useful.

## Command mode

Press `Ctrl-e` to open micro's command prompt. Typing `help tutorial` will open
this documentation.

For the rest of the docs `> help tutoral` indicates pressing `Ctrl-e`.

## Default keyboard shortcuts

Enter `> help defaultkeys` for a list of the default keybindings.

## Simple workflow: Move content from one file to another

For this example, we edit micro's own codebase, and move contents between files.

Press `Ctrl-o` and enter filename to open the file in the current view
(use `Tab` key to help with autocompletion)
```
> open internal/config/plugin_manager.go
```
Then from the command prompt (`Ctrl-e`) open a second file in a vertical split
```
> vsplit internal/config/plugin.go

> ```

Author: No. For me `tab` is a key. =)

In `i3` I don't need tabs. The edit workflow when you can see two or more files in one window seems more useful to me. Maybe the real reason why I decided to use `micro` is because copying text between `vim` instances running in different tabs didn't work for me, or the contents was lost when `vim` exits.

> ```

Reviewer: It's the opposite for me – I mainly use tabs because I keep my terminal window small and there's not really enough space for two buffers to fit comfortably. From my perspective tabs are the more basic form of operation (if you open multiple files at once the default behavior is to open them in tabs) and splits are slightly more advanced feature that users can learn about on their own. But I guess it ultimately doesn't really matter which one the tutorial uses.

Use `Ctrl-w` ("jump to next split" shortcut) to switch to the first file and
cut the `PluginInfo` structure into clipboard using `Ctrl-x`.

Press `Ctrl-w` again to switch back to second file and paste the clipboard
content using `Ctrl-v`.

> Now press `F2` to save current file and `Ctrl-q` to close it.

Author: For me, `Ctrl-s` freezes terminal. Not in `micro` though. It somehow manages to override it. Maybe it manages to override `F2` too.

It would be nice to see the list of terminals with their glitches to see when you need to change terminal and for that.

I am okay with `Ctrl-s` (or `F2`) if you can edit your comment. =)

> Now press `F2` to save current file and `Ctrl-q` to close it.

Reviewer: Mentioning both is a good solution, I updated the comment

> Now press `F2` to save current file and `Ctrl-q` to close it.

Author: Too late. I already made the edit with other fixes, but thanks anyway. =)

To preview the changes, run `git diff` by pressing `Ctrl-b` ("shell mode")
and entering the command. You will see changes only to the second file

> `plugin.go`, because the first file is not saved yet.

Reviewer: `git` is rarely installed by default so it might not be the best example to use for the command mode.

Author: I can rename the tutorial "Copying `micro` code with `micro`", to make it clear that it is for developers. Trying to squeeze everything in one tutorial is impossible anyways, and I don't know the target auditory that works with `micro` without `git`.

If there is another way to see changes since the file was opened, let's list them here.

Hit `Ctrl-q` again and micro will prompt if you want to save the first file
before closing. Press `y` and you're done.

Congratulations with completing your first mouseless tutorial with micro.

## Settings

In micro, your settings are stored in `~/.config/micro/settings.json`, a file
that is created the first time you run micro. You can edit the `settings.json`
file directly, or you can use `> set option value` command from micro, which
modifies `settings.json` file too, so that the setting will stick even after

> you close micro.

Reviewer: I think this sentence is too long which makes it harder to comprehend compared to the original phrasing. It's also missing the note about the modification taking effect immediately (which importantly does **not** happen when modifying the settings file directly).

Author: That's was unclear from the previous doc. Let me try to rephrase that.

Author: Try the next text. Should be better now.

> You can also set options temporary for the local buffer without saving then.
> For example, if you have two splits open, and you type `> setlocal tabsize 2`,
> the tabsize will only be 2 in the current buffer, and micro will not save
> this local change to the `settings.json` file.

Reviewer: I would avoid the word "local" because users might assume it means local as the opposite of remote (many other modern text editors have remote editing features).
```suggestion
You can set options temporarily for the currently open buffer without saving them.
For example, if you have two splits open, and you type `> setlocal tabsize 2`,
the tabsize will only be 2 in the current buffer, and micro will not save
this change to the `settings.json` file.
```

Author: I also don't like `local`, but the command is called `setlocal` and I feel it needs explanation. Otherwise it is hard to understand and remember.

The best way would be `set` (only for current file) and `setconfig` (save option to configuration), and maybe `setfileconfig` (save to configuration for the current file extension).

Author: Explained with "local is not global", because the "local buffer" sounds like too much internal details.
